==============================
1.2.1 - the luminosity branch
==============================

v1.2.1-luminosity - June 2x, 2018

Changes
-------

- Bumped to v1.2.1
- Adds Redis AUTH, apologies if this means any additional work on any Redis
  montioring you have set up.
- Adds JWT token of Redis password.
- Adds HTTPS hard requirement.
- Adds Ionosphere fluid approximation a.k.a Min-Max scaling/standardization, to
  feature profile calculations and checks.

Update notes
------------

- NOTE: adding Redis AUTH may affect any Redis monitoring you have set up.
- NOTE: If you are running v1.x you cannot upgrade from v1.x directly to v1.2.1,
  first upgrade to v1.2.0 and then upgrade to v1.2.1.

How to update from v1.2.0
-------------------------

- Download the new release tag or clone/update to get it to a temp location,
  ready to be deployed.
- Diff your current running version settings.py with skyline/settings.py and
  create a new settings.py in the temp location appropriate for Skyline v1.2.1
  and your set up, ready to be deployed.
- Stop all the Skyline services and ensure any service controls such as monit,
  supervisor or systemd do not start them again, (change as appropriate for
  your set up) e.g.

.. code-block:: bash

    # Stop all other Skyline services
    SKYLINE_SERVICES="horizon
    analyzer
    mirage
    crucible
    boundary
    ionosphere
    luminosity
    panorama
    webapp"
    for i in $SKYLINE_SERVICES
    do
      /etc/init.d/$i stop
    done

- Backup your Skyline database.
- Apply the SQL update to your Skyline database, change the below variables as
  appropriate to your set up.

.. code-block:: bash

    BACKUP_DIR="/tmp"  # Where you want to backup the DB to
    MYSQL_USER="<YOUR_MYSQL_USER>"
    MYSQL_HOST="127.0.0.1"  # Your MySQL IP
    MYSQL_DB="skyline"  # Your MySQL Skyline DB name
    SKYLINE_PATH="/opt/skyline/github/skyline.v1.2.1-luminosity-beta"  # Your Skyline path

    # Backup DB
    mkdir -p $BACKUP_DIR
    mysqldump -u$MYSQL_USER -p $MYSQL_DB > $BACKUP_DIR/pre.v1.2.1.$MYSQL_DB.sql

    # Update DB
    mysql -u$MYSQL_USER -p $MYSQL_DB < $SKYLINE_PATH/updates/sql/ionosphere-v1.2.0-to-v1.2.1.sql

- Move your current Skyline directory to a backup directory and move the new
  Skyline v1.2.1 with your new settings.py from the temp location to your
  working Skyline directory, (change your paths as appropriate) e.g.

.. code-block:: bash

    mv /opt/skyline/github/skyline /opt/skyline/github/skyline/skyline.v1.2.0-luminosity-stable
    mv "$SKYLINE_PATH" /opt/skyline/github/skyline

- Install new requirements e.g.

.. code-block:: bash

    PYTHON_MAJOR_VERSION="2.7"
    PYTHON_VIRTUALENV_DIR="/opt/python_virtualenv"
    PROJECT="skyline-py2714"

    cd "${PYTHON_VIRTUALENV_DIR}/projects/${PROJECT}"
    source bin/activate

    bin/"pip${PYTHON_MAJOR_VERSION}" install -r /opt/skyline/github/skyline/requirements.txt

    deactivate

.. note:: If you are running v1.2.0 and have already installed the luminol fork
  the pip install will error similar to the the below, this is expected and can
  be ignored, it is the last package in requirements.txt so all other deps will
  install.

.. code-block:: bash

    AssertionError: No source dir for luminol from git+git://github.com/earthgecko/luminol@d429044#egg=luminol in ./lib/python2.7/site-packages (from -r /opt/skyline/github/skyline/requirements.txt (line 317))

- Start the all Skyline services, remembering to start bin/luminosity.d too, (
  change as appropriate for your set up) e.g.

.. code-block:: bash

    # Start all other Skyline services
    SKYLINE_SERVICES="panorama
    luminosity
    horizon
    analyzer
    mirage
    crucible
    boundary
    ionosphere
    webapp"
    for i in $SKYLINE_SERVICES
    do
      /etc/init.d/$i start
    done

- Enable any process monitoring you have.
- Update your Apache (or reverse proxy config) with your SSL certificate and
  the X-Forwarded-Proto header.

::

    RequestHeader set X-Forwarded-Proto "https"
