=====
5.0.0
=====

v5.0.0 - xx Xxx 2024

Greetings Skylinian.

The is a major release.
This release with some miscellaneous changes and additions.

Changes
~~~~~~~

- SNAB results now also displayed in training data page along with graphs with the
  results of each algorithm run.
- Low variance metrics can now be automatically identified and analysed at 30
  days due to the fact that any outliers that occur occasionally on low variance
  metrics will more likely trigger due to there being less instances of them in
  the data.  The use of 30 days of data on these metrics results in a more
  representative sample of the data and is more robust to outliers.  This
  is not enabled by default as it requires exclusions to be defined, for
  example errors or 500s you probably want to continue to analyse at 7 days,
  rather than at 30 days.  See :mod:`settings.MIRAGE_SKIP_IRREGULAR_UNSTABLE`.
- Record results of individual algorithms run in snab checks.

It is worth pointing out that although both Redis and Python could be updated
with this version, Redis 7.2 has quite a few outstanding issues, so Redis is
being kept at 6.2.  And there is no compelling reason to update to Python 3.8.18
which is a security release relating to TLS server-side socket, seeing as all
SSL with Skyline is handled via nginx, updating to 3.8.18 is not required
because Skyline is not dealing with TLS client authentication.

Upgrade notes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- These update instructions apply to upgrading from v4.0.0
- There are changes to settings.py in v5.0.0
- There are changes to dependencies in v5.0.0
- There are DB changes in v5.0.0

How to update from v4.0.0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Build a new Python 3.10.15 version and virtualenv, use a new virtualenv with
  all the required libraries and do not affect your running install so you can
  rollback if necessarily.
- Download the new release tag or clone/update to get it to a temp location,
  ready to be deployed
- Copy your settings.py from v4.0.0 and update the copied v4.0.0 settings.py
  with your new v5.0.0 settings
- Stop the Skyline apps
- **Remove** the numba cache dir
- Move to the new version
- Start the Skyline apps

Ensure you read through all the steps below first and assess the steps you wish
to do and if any paths, etc need to be changed for your set up.

Here are the steps....

- Get the new version.

.. code-block:: bash

    # Get the new version
    NEW_SKYLINE_VERSION="v5.0.0"    # Your new Skyline version
    OLD_SKYLINE_VERSION="v4.0.0"    # Your old Skyline version

    CURRENT_SKYLINE_PATH="/opt/skyline/github/skyline"                 # Your Skyline path
    NEW_SKYLINE_PATH="${CURRENT_SKYLINE_PATH}.${NEW_SKYLINE_VERSION}"  # Your new Skyline path

    mkdir -p "${CURRENT_SKYLINE_PATH}.${NEW_SKYLINE_VERSION}"
    cd "${CURRENT_SKYLINE_PATH}.${NEW_SKYLINE_VERSION}"
    git clone https://github.com/earthgecko/skyline .
    git checkout "$NEW_SKYLINE_VERSION"

    # settings.py
    cp "$NEW_SKYLINE_PATH/skyline/settings.py" "$NEW_SKYLINE_PATH/skyline/settings.py.${NEW_SKYLINE_VERSION}.bak"

    # Create a new settings.py file in the new version based on your existing
    # settings.py file
    cat "${CURRENT_SKYLINE_PATH}/skyline/settings.py" > "$NEW_SKYLINE_PATH/skyline/settings.py"

    # You can diff the new settings with your settings that you just copied
    diff "$NEW_SKYLINE_PATH/skyline/settings.py.${NEW_SKYLINE_VERSION}.bak" "$NEW_SKYLINE_PATH/skyline/settings.py"

    # UPDATE YOUR $NEW_SKYLINE_PATH/skyline/settings.py as appropriate

- You are probably going to want to diff those settings in a visual diff like Meld.
- Deploy the new Python version and a new virtualenv and install the dependencies.

.. code-block:: bash

  # DEPLOY A NEW Python 3.10.15 virtualenv
  PYTHON_VERSION="3.10.15"
  PYTHON_MAJOR_VERSION="3.10"
  PYTHON_VIRTUALENV_DIR="/opt/python_virtualenv"
  mkdir -p "${PYTHON_VIRTUALENV_DIR}/versions/${PYTHON_VERSION}"
  mkdir -p "${PYTHON_VIRTUALENV_DIR}/projects"
  cd "${PYTHON_VIRTUALENV_DIR}/versions/${PYTHON_VERSION}"
  wget -q "https://www.python.org/ftp/python/${PYTHON_VERSION}/Python-${PYTHON_VERSION}.tgz"
  tar -zxvf "Python-${PYTHON_VERSION}.tgz"
  cd ${PYTHON_VIRTUALENV_DIR}/versions/${PYTHON_VERSION}/Python-${PYTHON_VERSION}
  ./configure --prefix=${PYTHON_VIRTUALENV_DIR}/versions/${PYTHON_VERSION}
  make -j4
  make altinstall

  # Create a new skyline-py31015 virtualenv
  PROJECT="skyline-py31015"
  cd "${PYTHON_VIRTUALENV_DIR}/projects"
  virtualenv --python="${PYTHON_VIRTUALENV_DIR}/versions/${PYTHON_VERSION}/bin/python${PYTHON_MAJOR_VERSION}" "$PROJECT"

  # Ensure the requirements are installed in your new Python 3.10.15 virtualenv
  cd "${PYTHON_VIRTUALENV_DIR}/projects/${PROJECT}"
  source bin/activate

  # Deploy the new requirements
  "bin/pip${PYTHON_MAJOR_VERSION}" install -r "${CURRENT_SKYLINE_PATH}.${NEW_SKYLINE_VERSION}"/requirements.txt

  deactivate
  cd

  # Fix python-daemon
  cp "/opt/python_virtualenv/projects/${PROJECT}/lib/python${PYTHON_MAJOR_VERSION}/site-packages/daemon/runner.py" "/opt/python_virtualenv/projects/${PROJECT}/lib/python${PYTHON_MAJOR_VERSION}/site-packages/daemon/runner.py.original.bak"
  cat "$NEW_SKYLINE_PATH/utils/python-daemon/runner.2.3.0.py" > "/opt/python_virtualenv/projects/${PROJECT}/lib/python${PYTHON_MAJOR_VERSION}/site-packages/daemon/runner.py"
  # minor change related to unbuffered bytes I/O
  diff "/opt/python_virtualenv/projects/${PROJECT}/lib/python${PYTHON_MAJOR_VERSION}/site-packages/daemon/runner.py.original.bak" "/opt/python_virtualenv/projects/${PROJECT}/lib/python${PYTHON_MAJOR_VERSION}/site-packages/daemon/runner.py"

- Ensure you have added all the new (and changed) settings to `$NEW_SKYLINE_PATH/skyline/settings.py` and test them

.. code-block:: bash

  # UPDATE YOUR $NEW_SKYLINE_PATH/skyline/settings.py as appropriate

  # **TEST**
  # Test your new settings.py BEFORE continuing with the upgrade,
  # test_settings.sh runs the validate_settings.py that the Skyline apps run
  # when they start
  $NEW_SKYLINE_PATH/bin/test_settings.sh

- At this point we are going to stop the Skyline services.
- Stop/disable any/all service controls like monit, etc that are controlling
  Skyline services.

.. code-block:: bash

  # Stop/disable any/all service controls like monit, etc that are controlling
  # Skyline services.

  # NOTE ALL SKYLINE SERVICES ARE LISTED HERE, REMOVE TO ONES YOU DO NOT RUN
  # or do not wish to run.
  SKYLINE_SERVICES="thunder
  analyzer
  analyzer_batch
  mirage
  crucible
  boundary
  ionosphere
  luminosity
  panorama
  webapp
  vista
  snab
  flux
  horizon"
  for i in $SKYLINE_SERVICES
  do
    systemctl stop "$i"
  done

- Move the numba cache directory.  This needs to be done to ensure that new
  jit cache files are compiled for numba jit functions with the updated Python
  version and required dependencies like numpy.  It is moved so that it can be
  rolled back to if needed without having to rebuild all the cached numba jit
  functions.

.. code-block:: bash

  mv /opt/skyline/.cache/numba /opt/skyline/.cache/numba.skyline-v4.0.0.bak

- Backup the DB and apply the update

.. code-block:: bash

    # BACKUP THE DB AND APPLY THE NEW SQL
    BACKUP_DIR="/tmp"  # Where you want to backup the DB to
    MYSQL_USER="skyline"
    MYSQL_HOST="127.0.0.1"  # Your MySQL IP
    MYSQL_DB="skyline"  # Your MySQL Skyline DB name

    # Backup DB
    mkdir -p $BACKUP_DIR
    mysqldump -u$MYSQL_USER -p -h $MYSQL_HOST $MYSQL_DB > $BACKUP_DIR/pre.$NEW_SKYLINE_VERSION.$MYSQL_DB.sql

    # Check you dump exists and has data
    ls -al $BACKUP_DIR/pre.$NEW_SKYLINE_VERSION.$MYSQL_DB.sql

    # Update DB
    mysql -u$MYSQL_USER -p -h $MYSQL_HOST $MYSQL_DB < "${NEW_SKYLINE_PATH}/updates/sql/v4.1.0.sql"
    echo $?


- Update the path in /etc/skyline/skyline.conf and the project symlink

.. code-block:: bash

    cp /etc/skyline/skyline.conf /etc/skyline/skyline.conf.v4.0.0.bak
    cat /etc/skyline/skyline.conf.v4.0.0.bak | sed -e 's/py3817/py31015/g;s/python3\.8/python3\.10/g' > /etc/skyline/skyline.conf
    ln -sf "${PYTHON_VIRTUALENV_DIR}/projects/${PROJECT}" "${PYTHON_VIRTUALENV_DIR}/projects/skyline"

- Update the Skyline systemd service files. **NOTE** if your service files are
  managed by something like configration management, please manually assess the
  changes required and update as appropriate.

.. code-block:: bash

    for i in $(find /opt/skyline/github/skyline/etc/systemd/system -type f)
    do
      /bin/cp -f $i /etc/systemd/system/
    done
    systemctl daemon-reload


- Move your current Skyline directory to a backup directory and move the new
  Skyline v5.0.0 with your new settings.py from the temp location to your
  working Skyline directory, (change your paths as appropriate) e.g.

.. code-block:: bash

    mv "$CURRENT_SKYLINE_PATH" "${CURRENT_SKYLINE_PATH}.${OLD_SKYLINE_VERSION}"
    mv "$NEW_SKYLINE_PATH" "$CURRENT_SKYLINE_PATH"

    # Set permission on the dump dir
    chown skyline:skyline "$CURRENT_SKYLINE_PATH"/skyline/webapp/static/dump


- Start the all Skyline services (change as appropriate for your set up) e.g.

.. code-block:: bash

    # NOTE ALL SKYLINE SERVICES ARE LISTED HERE, REMOVE TO ONES YOU DO NOT RUN
    # apart from the thunder Skyline app

    # Start all other Skyline services
    SKYLINE_SERVICES="horizon
    flux
    panorama
    webapp
    vista
    analyzer
    analyzer_batch
    mirage
    crucible
    boundary
    ionosphere
    luminosity
    snab
    thunder"
    for i in $SKYLINE_SERVICES
    do
      systemctl start "$i"
      if [ $? -ne 0 ]; then
        echo "failed to start $i"
      else
        echo "started $i"
      fi
      systemctl enable "$i"
    done
    # Restart any/all service controls like monit, etc that are controlling
    # Skyline services.

- Check the logs.  You may see a few errors related to some missing Redis keys/hashes
  this is expected as they do not exist on starting the new version.

.. code-block:: bash

    # How are they running
    tail -n 20 /var/log/skyline/*.log

    # Any errors - each app
    find /var/log/skyline -type f -name "*.log" | grep -v access | while read skyline_logfile
    do
      echo "#####
    # Checking for errors in $skyline_logfile"
      cat "$skyline_logfile" | grep -B2 -A10 -i "error ::\|traceback" | tail -n 60
      echo ""
      echo ""
    done

Congratulations, you are now running the best OSS anomaly detection stack in the
world (probably).


Changelog
~~~~~~~~~


- Feature #4994: custom_algorithm - mirages
- Task #4996: Improve matplotlib performance
- Task #5000: Replace alert key scans with sets
- Feature #5008: webapp - snab report page
- Task #5030: Change ALERT
- Task #5032: Change matplotlib black background to grey
- Feature #5038: snab_results_algorithms
- Feature #5040: functions.timeseries_prediction.fft_extrapolation
- Bug #5050: luminosity - process_correlations resolution handle NoneType
- Feature #5054: custom_algorithm - azure_ai_anomalydetector
- Feature #5070: snab - anomaly_detection_metrics
- Task #5088: Change membership of the list checks to sets
- Feature #5090: flux.d reload
- Feature #5092: ionosphere - create_training_data
- Task #5096: Incorporate irregular_unstable into Mirage
- Feature #5102: webapp - api skip_analysis
- Feature #5104: boundary - external_settings
- Feature #5108: boundary - functions
- Support #5114: debug.flux.request_times
- Task #5186: analyzer_labelled_metrics - handle high frequency
- Task #5188: Optimise redis renames
- Feature #5190: Add custom_algorithm results to Mirage and plots

And more ...
